Alright,let's go through the
Reset Password Flow.
So real quick on how this works
is generally when you request a password reset,
what happens is
that your back end will generate a random token that looks
like this.
And then you are emailed a link with that token in the URL.
And then when you try to reset the password,
you pass it, your email address
you also pass it your new password
but then you pass it your token as well.
And it will say, okay,
when you trynna update your password.
Here is a token.
Lemme check if that token is on file for you as well
as let me check that that token has been issued
in the last half an hour, an hour or something like that.
So that's how we're gonna go about it.
When I previously recorded this course
we generated that token ourselves and saved
to the user and save the date and all that stuff.
And luckily for us, Keystone has all the flow for that.
The only thing that Keystone doesn't do
is it doesn't send email.
So it allows us to hook into that token generation
And then we're gonna learn on how to send it out.
So the next couple of videos
we're gonna be looking at that on how to do that.
So we're going to duplicate this sign up
because it is very similar to sign up as well.
So just save a copy of sign up component
and we're gonna call it Request Reset, right?
Because we're gonna have two components here.
First, you request a reset
and then the second you got the link, you go to your email
you click it, you visit the website and then you come back
and you actually run the Reset component.
So let's just go
top to bottom here.
What is the email that we need?
We really just need email.
So we'll get rid of name and password here
and then we can get rid of the name label
and we get rid of the password label.
We'll put the button that says Request Reset.
And then we'll rename this component to Request Reset.
Let's go to our sign in page and just put it in there.
So sign up since called Request Reset to import that sucker.
Here we go.
I guess we should update the H2 tag that shows up here,
request a Password Reset.
And so that's the
rendering part of it.
The last little bit that we need is
the success message, which we'll do that
in just Second. Now let's go up to our Mutation here.
We'll rename that too.
So I selected all three places where that is.
We'll rename that to Request Reset Mutation
that only takes in an email address.
Then the mutation that we run is called
Send User Password Reset Link.
And again, you could pull that up on our graph QL Explorer
and this does not pass data.
It just passes email.
So in this case, it's just one value.
They don't pass an object.
It's just a value.
Then back from there, I believe it's a code.
Let's we can check it out by doing this,
go to our graph QL Explorer.
We'll take a look at our schema.
No, not the schema, the docs
search for that.
So does not showing up yet.
And in order for us to actually get that to show up
we need to hop into the backend and set a few things up.
So this is the first time we've done this in a bit
but let's hop into the backend
of our actual code and open up Keystone.ts
And we gotta find where we create our auth.
So create auth that's right here.
And we've got our List Key Identity.
Now below that we will have a Password Reset Link method
actually, sorry, Password Reset Link is an object,
On that we have a, an a sync send Token method
and that will give us some arguments
and let's just console.log the arguments.
Now, just to see what we've got,
it's given us grief
a sync methods has no away inside of it and that's okay.
We will await it in just a second.
So now I believe we gotta kill our back end.
Oh, that was our front end.
Gotta kill the back end here and start it again.
And now I believe if we go to
our schema or our docs here, we can look for
there we go see mutation.sendpasswordreset.
And what it returns to is
a code which could be
identity not found or multiple identity matches.
And then as well
as the message saying it worked successfully.
So the sort of the way that this is gonna work
if I close this down here.
So if we create our Mutation,
what was the Mutation called?
Send Password Reset link
where the email is equal to wesbos@gmail.com
And then as a response from that
we want the message and the code.
Now, let me go to my terminal here and then
clear out everything, and I'm gonna run this mutation.
So we get null here, which that might have something to do.
It might just return null
we'll take a look,
but we do get this right here.
The item ID, which is the person,
the identity, that's the Username.
And this is the secret sauce right here.
This is the token.
This essentially is a password that can be used
to reset your password.
So be very careful what you do with this.
You'll never wanna send this to the browser
because if you send this to the browser
and someone could reset any email address.
So we need to put this in an email to the actual user
right now, we're just cancel that logging that value out.
And then we will look
at how we can actually hook it up to that
So simply by adding Password Reset Link Property
to our create auth object, it allows, it gives us
a new mutation called Send Password Reset Link.
So we hopped back to the front end here.
we can we know that we got a code
and a message that's returned
Let's try it with an email that doesn't exist.
The email, yeah, here we go.
They give you a message and a code.
That's only when there's an error,
it will give you that information.
Next, we need to show them that it was successful.
So the fact that this returns null when it's successful
it's a bit weird, but that's how it works.
So we need to check for that in here.
So we'll say
if the data.sendUserpasswordResetLink
is, Oh, I spelled it wrong
Is equal to null
then what we will do
is we will say Paragraph Success
Check your email for a link
Okay, So now we go to our Reset Password
And if I put in wesbospage@gmail.com
I'm gonna have my terminal open here, clear it out
run it, success, check your email for a link and boom
we get this token show up.
So that as the first pizza of the pie
which is actually triggering that method to go off
the next thing we need to do is to make a new form
that will take that token in from the URL and then reset it.
And then the third thing we'll need to do is actually go
on the backend and send an actual email
to the user instead of just logging it.